Come back in this video we are going to look at slicing and specifically at least slicing and later
on it's string slicing as well.
That's something that we haven't touched yet which is a super cool feature and it allows us to do pretty
cool stuff.
So let's go ahead and start with slicing the students list before we do that.
There is one thing that I would like to show you though.
I have this list that we have seen multiple times and I'm just going to print students as is now so
you can see Max Monica Eric and Francisca.
And now what you can do is you can also of course exercise one of the entries so you can just say Okay
one and one will be Monica.
But what if you want to access the last element.
So let's say Francisco or if you want to access the last element instead of calculating what the index
would be.
So 0 1 2 3 so you could of course get into three but you can also enter minus one.
So instead of entering three I'm going to use minus one.
And what that will do is it will give me the last element of the list.
So let's see if that's true if I change the list element that I'm going to add ABC as you can see now
it gives me a b c so it doesn't give me Francisco anymore.
So if you want to have the last element you can simply use minus 1 which you want to have the second
last element.
Well probably you guessed it you can enter minus two.
So now as you can see I'm getting Francisca.
So now you simply calculate from the back but you don't start a zero.
But you start at minus 1 so minus one minus two minus three minus 4 for Monica and so forth.
So that is something that is important for the next point which is a list slicing.
So let's say we look at a list slicing.
I'm going to create in you marked down here who list Slye Singh.
And I'm going to use code here of course.
Now let's print students again but this time let's use this slicing and what is that.
Well you can slice a list and create a different list for a short period of time for example like here
I'm just creating it for this particular line of code where I would for example only print out the elements
from the second or from index to to index for it.
So let me just do that.
So you can see I only get Eric and Francisco.
That means I'm getting the index to entry and index three entry for is not included.
So the second value here after the colon is not included.
So if I'd say give me two up to three it will only give me Eric because three is exclusive.
That's why Francisco would not be part of it anymore.
So now I have this little list and I could of course create another list from it less on this course
students could be my students from 1 to 3 for example and that's parentless students present less on
the score students.
And as you can see this would be Monica and Eric.
So it start at the next one and gives me next to as well because three exclusive means two is still
in there.
OK.
So that's called a list slicing.
Now you can do what you have done here or what we have done here.
You can do that with less slicing as well.
So let's say I want to have students from zero to minus 1.
What would that give me.
Well give me everything except for the last element in the list.
So you can easily slice a list by a worse slice away the last piece of list by using this approach here.
OK.
Or if you want to have everything and the rest but the last three then you could go ahead and say all
right minus three.
So it will only give me the.
In this case the first two elements and the last three will not be printed out or not be executed or
returned.
Pretty much all right.
And if you are using zero here you can also just skip to zero so you can just use empty.
Then colon minus three or whatever the second value is.
So if I do that it's the same result as I can see.
All right so that's what you can do with slicing.
Now a pretty cool thing that you also can do with slicing is use this approach with strings.
So I'm going to call that slicing works with strings and let's check it out.
So let's write something like.
Hello world.
So let's just print hello world on the console but now I'm going to slicing so I'm going to use the
square brackets and I'm going to say give me zero to five.
So give me the forced first five characters so this will just give me the first five characters and
it just prints out Hello.
Now if I only want to have the last four characters or maybe last 5 characters I can just enter minus
five colon and that will give me world.
So as you can see start at minus 5 and go towards the end so go towards the end of the string because
if I add something else in here has it going to get the last 5 characters and then it just ends right
because if I get the last five then there is no additional ending right.
OK so that's what we can do with this slicing and with string slicing Moken of course also use the same
approach which just OK from 1 to 3 and that will give me.
And there will be hell from here.
The age is skipped because we had to 1.
So we start at the next one and then we end add index 3 so this second L is not included anymore.
All right so that was List slicing in the next lecture.
There will be a little quiz and afterwards of course the solution for the quiz as well.
So see you there.